# -Enhanced-Interior-Gateway-Routing-Protocol-EIGRP
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is an interior gateway protocol suited for many different topologies and media. In a well designed network, EIGRP scales well and provides extremely quick convergence times with minimal network traffic.   Some of the many advantages of EIGRP are:  very low usage of network resources during normal operation; only hello packets are transmitted on a stable network  when a change occurs, only routing table changes are propagated, not the entire routing table; this reduces the load the routing protocol itself places on the network  rapid convergence times for changes in the network topology (in some situations convergence can be almost instantaneous)  EIGRP is an enhanced distance vector protocol, relying on the Diffused Update Algorithm (DUAL) to calculate the shortest path to a destination within a network.  EIGRP sends hello packets every 5 seconds on high bandwidth links and every 60 seconds on low bandwidth multipoint links.  5-second hello:  broadcast media, such as Ethernet, Token Ring, and FDDI  point-to-point serial links, such as PPP or HDLC leased circuits, Frame Relay point-to-point subinterfaces, and ATM point-to-point subinterface  high bandwidth (greater than T1) multipoint circuits, such as ISDN PRI and Frame Relay  60-second hello:  multipoint circuits T1 bandwidth or slower, such as Frame Relay multipoint interfaces, ATM multipoint interfaces, ATM switched virtual circuits, and ISDN BRIs  The rate at which EIGRP sends hello packets is called the hello interval, and you can adjust it per interface with the ip hello-interval eigrp command. The hold time is the amount of time that a router will consider a neighbor alive without receiving a hello packet. The hold time is typically three times the hello interval, by default, 15 seconds and 180 seconds. You can adjust the hold time with the ip hold-time eigrp command.
